---
title: "Dns 101"
date: 2021-07-10T15:00:18-07:00
draft: false
---

### Introduction to DNS:

Simple way to explain DNS is think of a phone book and your mapping names to phone numbers. DNS maps urls google.com to an ip address. DNS can be considered a distributed database with partition zones and domain names are paths in an inverted tree. ICAAN runs the root domain and verisign runs the nodes under com. Delegation is the process to allow an organization to assign control of subdomains. 

 

Resolver:

System in the os that takes dns and translate to ip address. 
An application developer calls a friendly-sounding routine, such as get host by name, passing it the domain name whose address he’s interested in. He gets back a data structure that contains the IP address or addresses that the domain name maps to.
What are resolvers?
Library of software routines that abstract the low-level details of assembling a query, sending it to a name server, maybe resetting it, and extracting the interesting part of a response.
 

 

Root Name Server

Root name server will return a referral to the name sever when it is queries.
If say your website is google.com
It will send a referral to com name server which will send a referral to google.com nameserver
 

 

To options available if your looking to run your own managed DNS servers

Bind
Written at Berkley
Famously configurable
Very popular
Windows DNS Server
Integrates with AD
Has a UI
 

Types of Records: A, AAAA, PTR, SRV, SOA, NS

A Record
Ipv4
Maps a subdomain for example www to an ip address
Example: www -> 10.0.0.1
You can have multiple A-Records to the same resource using different IP
AAAA Record
Ipv6
www -> 2406:da00:ff00::3213:5554
You can have multiple A-Records to the same resource using different IP
PTR Record
Reverse mapping
Maps IPv4 back to domain name
CNAME Record
Creates an alias to a domain name
It is singleton so you can only have one per resource
MX Record
Used by mail servers SMTP mail transport agents, or MTAs for short. It determines where to send electronic mail to.
Format is domain main that appears to the user
Only useful for email
Being able to designate a backup server may be useful for other protocols
SRV Record
General purpose MX record that can work with any service
The syntax is a bit more complicated than the MX Record
The record specific data has four fields.
TXT Record
Can be used to attach comments to domain names
SOA Record
Used by dns itself
Only one SOA record for a Zone and is attached to the domain name of the zone
Contains important parameters such as:
Zone Serial Number
NS Record
Used by dns itself
Lists the authoritative name servers for a zone
The owner name must be the name of the zone
Stitches the namespaces together
 

Helpful command if your looking to trace the how your client will search for referrals

$ dig +trace -t A api.zakhassan.me